---
title: 'Microsoft Powerapps'
subtitle: 'Microsoft Powerapps'
date: 2022-02-09 18:18:00
description: This is my Microsoft Powerapps Project.
featured_image: '/images/demo/MSpowerapp.jpg'
---
# Microsoft Powerapps
## In this project I will be shocasing some of the applcations you can create with Microsoft Powerapps

Power Apps is a suite of apps, services,connectors, and a data platform that provides you with an opportunity to build custom apps for your business needs. By using Power Apps, you can quickly build custom business apps that connect to your business data that is stored either in the underlying data platform (Microsoft Dataverse) or in various online and on-premises data sources
(SharePoint, Excel, Office 365, Dynamics 365, SQL Server, and so on).
Apps that are built by using Power Apps provide rich business logic and
workflow capabilities to transform your manual business processes to
digital, automated processes. Power Apps simplifies the custom business
app building experience by enabling users to build feature-rich apps
without writing code. Power Apps also provides an extensible platform
that lets pro developers programmatically interact with data and
metadata, apply business logic, create custom connectors, and integrate
with external data.

## With Power Apps, you can: 
-	Build an app quickly by using the skills
that you already have. 
-	Connect to the cloud services and data sources
that you're already using. 
-	Share your apps instantly so that coworkers
can use them on their phones and tablets.

Power Automate Power Automate brings automation to your business. This
can be traditional workflows via flow, Robotic Process Automation (RPA)
for automating legacy systems via desktop flow, or business process
automation via Business Process Flows. Each of these capabilities
increases your productivity to connect disjointed systems to build the
business solution you need and make your app more powerful. You can use
Power Automate to create logic that performs one or more tasks when an
event occurs in a canvas app. For example, configure a button to execute
a flow to do one of the following: create an item in a list in Microsoft
Lists, send an email or meeting request, or add a file to OneDrive. The
button could be configured to do all of those in a single Power Automate
flow. You can configure any control in the app to start the flow, which
continues to run even if you close Power Apps. Below is an example using
Power Automate to send a flow:

Identify flows in your solution Now that you have a general overview of
Power Automate, how do you determine if the solution you're building
requires a Flow? There are many simple functions Power Apps can do, like
sending an email when a button is pressed in your application. This
email generated from Power Apps can also contain dynamic/specific
information and be sent to any email address you would like. Often,
customers will use Power Automate to create this same functionality even
though Power Apps can do this out of the box. Power Automate should be
used for more complex solutions, such as the approval workflows. With
Power Automate you can run an approval when a button is pressed, on a
schedule, when an item is created or modified, and so on. For many Power
Apps solutions Power Automate is used to handle complex business logic.
Do you need a way to make sure someone acted on the incident report that
was generated by your app? Or, do you need a process to kick off every
time new data is created in another system so Power Apps will have the
data it needs? Do you need to check each morning to see if an inspection
is due that day and then send an email with a link to your Power Apps
inspection form? These are great uses of Power Automate to transform
your app from a point solution to a fully featured business solution.

Power BI Power BI is an analytics tool within Microsoft Power Platform
suite. Power BI connects data from multiple sources and transforms the
data into graphical visualizations to gain insights. It allows business
users to utilize many different visualizations to build comprehensive
reports and dashboards. When creating Power BI reports to view and
analyze your app data, you have the ability to customize them for
personal use and will only be accessible by you, providing you with a
more unique and custom experience. If you need to share the report with
others, you and each of the report consumer will need a Power BI Pro
license. This license allows you to not only share the content but also
control what others are able to do with the shared report or dashboard.
While Power Apps has capabilities to include simple graphs or tables,
many solutions would be better served with a visualization provided by
Power BI. Power Apps and Power BI have two options for seamless
integration: Embed a Power BI tile in a Power Apps app By embedding a
Power BI tile in a Power Apps solution, you are able to bring valuable
visualizations into the app to allow the user to consume that data
within the context of the app.

Embed a Power Apps app in a Power BI dashboard Another integration
between these two applications, is to embed a Power Apps app in your
Power BI report. This allows the user to act on data while never leaving
the dashboard resulting in a better user experience. Consider an
inventory management dashboard for a manufacturing facility. Without
leaving the dashboard, the user can submit to purchasing an order for
other material. While the solution may have been utilizing both the
Power Apps and Power BI platforms, the user simply experiences a
complete end to end solution in one window on their desktop.
